
 
 Home /
 About ASU Library /
 Mission and Vision 
 

 
 Mission and Vision 

 
At Arizona State University, we are building a new library for the 21st century – one that is as inspiring as it is welcoming, both an incubator of creativity and a monument to human complexity.
As new technologies, disciplines and opportunities for discovery continue to emerge, the learning and research needs of ASU students and faculty demand a library that is both agile and robust, community-centered and service-minded, imaginative and engaged, and equipped to support a growing and dynamic university that is driven by innovation.
Our Mission
ASU Library is the gateway to the ASU educational enterprise and thus a critical partner in realizing the New American University mission, of which success is measured not by whom it excludes, but by whom it includes and how they succeed.
Deliver high-quality resources to all ASU users – whatever they need, wherever they are – in support of academic excellence and accessibility.
Collaborate with faculty and students in a culture of "inquiry entrepreneurship" – defined by active learning and original research – and through innovative partnerships and professionalism.
Inspire and engage the ASU community and the world through creative design that enhances the local impact and social embeddedness of library services, programs and expertise.
 
Maps and Addresses
 
 About the Library
Employment
Library News
Policies
Support the Library
We're Listening!
Who We Are
Staff Intranet
 
 
 Contact Us
Ask a Librarian
Feedback
Staff Directory
 Hours and Locations
Hours
Maps and Locations
 
 The ASU Library acknowledges the twenty-two Native Nations that have inhabited this land for centuries. Arizona State University's four campuses are located in the Salt River Valley on ancestral territories of Indigenous peoples, including the Akimel O’odham (Pima) and Pee Posh (Maricopa) Indian Communities, whose care and keeping of these lands allows us to be here today. ASU Library acknowledges the sovereignty of these nations and seeks to foster an environment of success and possibility for Native American students and patrons. We are advocates for the incorporation of Indigenous knowledge systems and research methodologies within contemporary library practice. ASU Library welcomes members of the Akimel O’odham and Pee Posh, and all Native nations to the Library.


