FOLGER SHAKESPEARE LIBRARY
201 East Capitol Street, SE Washington, DC 20003
Main (202) 544-4600Box Office (202) 544-7077
Our building on Capitol Hill is closed due to a major building renovation project, but Folger events and programs continue online.
How Construction Affects You
Performances & Events
Performances & Events
Folger Theatre
Folger Consort
O.B. Hardison Poetry
Talks, Screenings, & More
Family Programs
Tickets
Folger Theatre
Subscribe to the 2020/21 Season
A Midsummer Night's DreamThe TempestNathan the Wise
Watch 2008's Macbeth
Streaming for freeFull performance + special features
Shakespeare
Shakespeare
Shakespeare's Works
Shakespeare's Life
Shakespeare's Theater
Publishing Shakespeare
First Folio
Shakespeare Collection
Shakespeare FAQ
Shakespeare Publications
Podcasts and Recordings
Shakespeare for Kids
Shakespeare's Birthday
SHAKESPEARE'S WORKS (A-Z)
All's Well That Ends Well
Antony and Cleopatra
As You Like It
The Comedy of Errors
Coriolanus
Cymbeline
Hamlet
Henry IV, Part 1
All's Well That Ends Well
Antony and Cleopatra
As You Like It
The Comedy of Errors
Coriolanus
Cymbeline
Hamlet
Henry IV, Part 1
Henry IV, Part 2
Henry V
Henry VI, Part 1
Henry VI, Part 2
Henry VI, Part 3
Henry VIII
Julius Caesar
King John
King Lear
Love's Labor's Lost
Lucrece
Macbeth
Measure for Measure
The Merchant of Venice
The Merry Wives of Windsor
A Midsummer Night's Dream
Much Ado About Nothing
Othello
Pericles
The Phoenix and Turtle
Richard II
Richard III
Romeo and Juliet
Sonnets
The Taming of the Shrew
The Tempest
Timon of Athens
Titus Andronicus
Troilus and Cressida
Twelfth Night
The Two Gentlemen of Verona
The Two Noble Kinsmen
Venus and Adonis
The Winter's Tale
PrevNext
The Collection
The Collection
Exhibitions
Collection Materials
Images and Permissions
Conservation and Preservation
History of the Collection
Collection Development Policy
LEARN ABOUT THE COLLECTION
Collection Materials
Printed Books
Manuscripts
Works of Art
Performance History
Collection Material Loans
Ask a Librarian
Have a question about our collections? Our reference librarians can help you!
Research & Scholars
Research & Scholars
Research with the Folger
Folger Institute
Online Resources
Ask a Librarian
EMED
A digital anthology of early modern English drama
 
EMMO
Transcriptions, metadata, and images of manuscripts from the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries
Teach & Learn
Teach & Learn
Teaching During COVID-19
The Folger Method
Teacher Membership
Classroom Resources
Professional Development
Student Programs
Folger Teaching
Become a teacher member to get access to lesson plans and professional development.
Give
Give
Membership
Annual Giving
Support the Collection
Sponsor a Folger Program
Corporate Giving
Planned Giving
Folger Gala
The Wonder of Will Campaign
BECOME A MEMBER
Become a member of the Folger Shakespeare Library and receive access to special member events.
MAKE A DONATION
We invite you to personally participate in the life of the Folger Shakespeare Library by making a tax-deductible donation to the institution.
About
About
Building Renovation Project
History
Folger Magazine
Board of Governors
Annual Report
Connect with the Folger
Work With Us
Folger Staff
Press Room
OPPORTUNITIES AT THE FOLGER
The Folger is looking for exceptionally qualified individuals who are committed to the mission, vision, and values of our organization. 
You are hereHomeAbout
AboutBuilding Renovation Project
History
Folger Magazine
Board of Governors
Annual Report
Connect with the Folger
Work With Us
Folger Staff
Press Room
Visit
Performances & Events
Shakespeare
The Collection
Research & Scholars
Teach & Learn
Give
You are hereHomeAbout
About the Folger
031699.jpg
Main (202) 544-4600Box Office (202) 544-7077​Fax (202) 544-4623info@folger.edu
Folger Shakespeare Library is the world’s largest Shakespeare collection, the ultimate resource for exploring Shakespeare and his world. The Folger welcomes millions of visitors online and in person. We provide unparalleled access to a huge array of resources, from original sources to modern interpretations. With the Folger, you can experience the power of performance, the wonder of exhibitions, and the excitement of pathbreaking research. We offer the opportunity to see and even work with early modern sources, driving discovery and transforming education for students of all ages. 
Shakespeare belongs to you. His world is vast. Come explore. Join us online, on the road, or in Washington, DC.
In addition to being the world's largest Shakespeare collection, the Folger is home to major collections of other rare Renaissance books, manuscripts, and works of art. Located a block from the US Capitol, the Folger serves a wide audience of scholars, visitors, teachers, students, families, and theater- and concert-goers. 
The Folger opened in 1932, as a gift to the American people from founders Henry and Emily Folger. Learn more about the history of the Folger.
Our mission
To preserve and enhance our collection
To make our collection accessible to scholars and others who can use it productively
To advance understanding and appreciation of Shakespeare’s writings and the culture of the early modern world.
What we do
We create experiences. People experience Shakespeare and his world in startling new ways with the Folger Shakespeare Library. Professional theater, exhibitions, lectures, concerts, family programs, podcasts, and events engage millions of people—at the Folger, on the road, and online.
 
We transform education. The Folger Shakespeare Library is revolutionizing the way Shakespeare is taught in classrooms, showing how the study of his work deepens knowledge and hones skills across key academic areas.
 
More than two million teachers and students benefit each year from in-person workshops, lesson plans, webinars, online field trips, and the best-selling Folger Editions of Shakespeare’s plays. The Folger is a leader in performance-based education, which helps to build deep reading skills critical to student success.
 
We drive discovery. The Folger Shakespeare Library is an international center for Shakespeare scholarship and the study of the early modern period. Each year we welcome hundreds of scholars who use our collection to advance knowledge across dozens of fields. We collaborate with other research institutions to expand access, foster exploration, and share knowledge. Through fellowships, seminars, publications, lectures, and partnerships, we advance the study of Shakespeare and his world.
 
Learn more
Find out more about what's happening at the Folger, learn about ways to connect with us online or in social media, or find volunteer or employment opportunities. You can also review our annual report and get information on the Folger Board of Governors and the Folger staff, including director Michael Witmore. 
Main (202) 544-4600Box Office (202) 544-7077​Fax (202) 544-4623info@folger.edu
Connect
Support the Folger
Social Media
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
YouTube
Flickr
Sign up for our Newsletters
Contact
201 East Capitol Street, SE
Washington, DC 20003
Main (202) 544-4600Box Office (202) 544-7077
info@folger.edu
Visit
Get Directions
Building Renovation
Our main building is closed for a multi-year renovation. All Folger programs and events will be held at other venues during construction.
About the Renovation
Performances & Events
Choose from a variety of Folger events and programs, on Capitol Hill, around Washington, DC, and across the country.
Browse Public Events
Find Scholarly Programs
Find Programs for Teachers
© 1996-2021 Folger Shakespeare Library
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Copyright
