Home › About Hoover
Mission/History
Image credit: istockNow more than five decades old, Herbert Hoover's 1959 statement to the Board of Trustees of Stanford University on the purpose and scope of the Hoover Institution continues to guide and define its mission in the twenty-first century:
 
"This Institution supports the Constitution of the United States, its Bill of Rights and its method of representative government. Both our social and economic systems are based on private enterprise from which springs initiative and ingenuity.... Ours is a system where the Federal Government should undertake no governmental, social or economic action, except where local government, or the people, cannot undertake it for themselves.... The overall mission of this Institution is, from its records, to recall the voice of experience against the making of war, and by the study of these records and their publication, to recall man's endeavors to make and preserve peace, and to sustain for America the safeguards of the American way of life. This Institution is not, and must not be, a mere library. But with these purposes as its goal, the Institution itself must constantly and dynamically point the road to peace, to personal freedom, and to the safeguards of the American system."
- Herbert Hoover
The principles of individual, economic, and political freedom; private enterprise; and representative government were fundamental to the vision of the Institution's founder. By collecting knowledge, generating ideas, and disseminating both, the Institution seeks to secure and safeguard peace, improve the human condition, and limit government intrusion into the lives of individuals.
About Hoover
Mission/HistoryHerbert Hoover
Hoover Timeline
News and Press
Events
Overseers
Reports
Contact Us
David and Joan Traitel BuildingDavid & Joan Traitel Building Event Rental Information
Hoover Institution Strategic Plan
Explore Hoover's history
More from Hoover
Featured Fellow
Eric Hanushek
Eric Hanushek is the Paul and Jean Hanna Senior Fellow and a member of the Koret Task Force on K–12 Education at the Hoover Institution.
Learn More »
Featured Publication
Thinking about the Future
In Thinking about the Future, Shultz has collected and revisited key writings, applying his past thinking to America’s most pressing contemporary problems.
Learn More »
Support the Hoover Institution
Join the Hoover Institution’s
community of supporters in
advancing ideas defining a free
society.
Find out how »
Research
Publications
Fellows
Library & Archives
News & Events
About Hoover
Get Involved »
Help Advance Ideas Defining a Free Society
Become engaged in a community that shares an interest in the mission of the Hoover Institution to advance policy ideas that promote economic opportunity and prosperity, while securing and safeguarding peace for America and all mankind.
The opinions expressed on this website are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Hoover Institution or Stanford University.
Twitter
YouTube
Apple iTunes
Facebook
Instagram
RSS
Most of the innovations in the proposed voting rights overhaul are both unconstitutional and unwise, writes… t.co/0vLsdsTn9y
Reply Retweet @HooverInst
