Special Collections Cataloging at Penn
Search
Main menu
HomeAbout SCPC
Exhibits
Projects
Marlboro Music records
Penn Provenance Project
Promoting Research through Rare Book Cataloging Partnerships
About SCPC
The Special Collections Processing Center (SCPC) of the University of Pennsylvania’s Kislak Center for Special Collections, Rare Books and Manuscripts  is responsible for cataloging rare books, manuscripts, and archival collections for use by the general public.  Every day, treasures from our past are worked on by the SCPC’s staff members.  These treasures range from medieval manuscripts and incunables, to broadsides and pamphlet collections, to indulgences, to diaries and travel journals, to collections of papers created by authors, musicians, and the co-inventor of the computer, to name only a few.
Regan Kladstrup, Director of Special Collections Processing, leads a team of rare book and manuscript catalogers and archival processors in the Special Collections Processing Center on the 5th floor of the Van Pelt Library.  Catalogers and processors collaborate and share knowledge and methodologies, and produce creative solutions to providing greater access to the Kislak Center’s amazing material.
Processed collections can be found via Franklin and the Penn Finding Aids Site; but our blog is our opportunity to talk about what we love, what surprises us, and what we learn from the treasures within our collections!  Check back frequently for the most recent SCPC finds.
Share this:TwitterFacebookLike this:Like Loading...
1 thought on “About SCPC”
Joyce Sundheim on June 6, 2019 at 2:48 pm said:
My name is Joyce Newell Sundheim, author of a recent publication about my father, a 1934 graduate of Univ. of Penn. with a masters degree in Sociology and Anthropology, entitled “Rolling Thunder Stomping Out Indifference.” He had been a research assistant while in attendance in Ethnology, Archeology and Anthropology at the university museum as well in 1934. William B. Newell rose from obscurity as a 21 year old uneducated Mohawk/Penobscot Indian to be a well respected Sociology/Anthropology professor; lifting up his people all the while with his compelling voice and persuasive manner. He spoke to hundreds of organizations in his lifetime on the contributions of the American Indian to civilization. questioning just how much the Indian influenced Europeans, as much as how the reverse was considered to be true. I would like to have it considered as a resource for students studying in this field and would appreciate knowing who I should contact about this possibility. It is a compelling biography of a fairly recent native and his struggle to succeed in the white man’s world. Where should I send a copy? His life span: 1892 – 1981. It is an inspirational story of his life. I am at sundheimjoyce@gmail.com
     
