Information related to COVID-19 
 Princeton University Library 2020-21 Information
Princeton University Spring 2021 website
The Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library is currently undergoing a renovation. In the coming months, as we prepare for the completion of this project, access to the collections will be extremely limited. Please visit the Access to Mudd Library During Renovation page for the most up-to-date information on when collections will again be available.
You are here
 Home
 Conducting Research
 Services & Policies  
 
 Access Services 

 
 Access to Mudd Library During Renovation 
 
 Access Policy for the Public Policy Papers 
 
 Access Policy For University Archives Collections 
 
 Digital Camera Usage in the Reading Room 
 
 Reading Room Guidelines 
rbsc_access_services_mudd.jpg
We welcome Princeton University students, faculty, staff, and visiting researchers to explore the holdings of the Department of Special Collections. The collections are non-circulating and are used only in designated reading rooms.
Readers must register on their first visit and agree to abide by departmental regulations for the handling and citation of materials in collections. If you are a first time reader, visiting either Firestone or the Mudd Manuscript Library, you will be required to obtain an access pass in the Access Office, located in the lobby of Firestone Library. Please have available a currently valid photo ID, such as a driver's license incorporating a picture, a passport, or an academic ID. 
Please Note: The Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library Reading Room is now closed for renovation, though due to COVID-19, the timeline of the renovation may change. Visit our website for the latest information on the availability of our collections during that time. 
Notes must be taken in pencil. Laptops are permitted. Permission must be granted for the use of cameras, tape recorders, and other special equipment. Personal photocopiers and scanners are not allowed. Smoking, drinking, and eating are prohibited in all areas. Materials are to be handled with care and returned in the order and condition in which they were received. Many items are unique, rare, valuable, and fragile. Accordingly, use is under strict supervision, and access may be limited by the curator. Personal articles will be inspected as readers leave the Department's reading rooms.
