You have made an excellent choice in deciding to attend one of the top research universities
                  in the country. Within the University Libraries at Saint Louis University, you will
                  find top level librarians and staff to connect you with the information you need.
                  We are here to support you in being successful in your academic career.
               
               
               SLU has three libraries on our St. Louis campus and one library on our campus in Madrid,
                  Spain.
               
               
               
                  
                  Pius XII Memorial Library is located on the north end of the St. Louis campus.
                  
                  The Medical Center Library (MCL) is located on the south end of the St. Louis campus
                  
                  The Vincent C. Immel Law Library (formerly Omer Poos Law Library) is located in downtown
                     St. Louis in Scott Hall.
                  
                  
               
               
               The University Libraries have extensive collections to support teaching, learning,
                  researching, studying and clinical care. Within each library, you will also find specialized
                  collections. For example, the Knights of Columbus Vatican Film Library (located in
                  Pius XII Memorial Library) is an outstanding research collection for medieval and
                  Renaissance manuscript studies that houses more than 37,000 microfilmed manuscripts
                  from the Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana.
               
               
               Our goal is to provide you with the information you need – anytime, anywhere – along
                  with library buildings that are clean, quiet, and comfortable. We want to provide
                  you with an environment conducive to study and research.
               
               
               From those of us who work on your behalf at the University Libraries, welcome and
                  enjoy your educational experience.
               
               
               Learn More About the University Libraries
               
               Check out our newsletter and our news and events section.
               
               
               Other helpful pages include:
               
               
                  
                  Library Policies
                  
                  Library Services
                  
               
               
               Facts about Pius XII Memorial Library
               
               
                  
                  Built in 1959
                  
                  Named after Pope Pius XII
                  
                  215,000 square feet
                  
                  Houses over 1.3 million volumes
                  
                  Over 12,000 e-Books
                  
                  446 group presentations to 8,043 participants
                  
                  Wireless access throughout the library
                  
                  53 public computers
                  
                  34 laptops available to check out
                  
                  1,600 seats
                  
                  19 study rooms
                  
                  Home to the Vatican Film Library
                  
                  Over 30,000 volumes of rare books
                  
                  Serves over 14,000 students and faculty
                  
                  24-hour access during fall and spring semesters - Sunday to Friday
                  
                  Einstein Bros. Bagels open seven days a week during fall and spring semesters
                  
                  Academic Technology Commons (ATC) opened November 2017
                  
               
            
            
               Work for the University Libraries
               
               Current Faculty/Staff Openings
               
               Apply to be a Student Worker
            
         
      
   
      
         Higher purpose. Greater good.
         
            Facebook
                     
            Twitter
                     
            LinkedIn
                     
            Instagram
                     
            YouTube
                     
            Snapchat
                     
            TiKTok
                     
         
         
            Current Students
            Parents
            Alumni & Donors
            Faculty & Staff
         
         
            Madrid Campus
            SLU A-Z 
            mySLU
            Work at SLU
            Emergency Info
            Disclaimer
            Privacy Notice
         
      Saint Louis University Footer Logo
            
         ©
       1818 - 2021 Saint Louis University
      
 
