George A. Smathes LibrariesPO Box 117000Gainesville FL 32611-7000(352) 273-2505GEORGE A. SMATHERS LIBRARIESuflib.ufl.eduInclusion and Intellectual FreedomInclusion Statement:The George A. Smathers Libraries support intellectualfreedom, freedom of speech and the open exchange ofideas and opinions that support the community building,learning and research efforts of the University of Florida.The Libraries welcome all members of our community,regardless of their race, sex, sexual orientation, genderidentity, religion, disability, age, veteran status, ancestry,national or ethnic origin, or citizenship status.Intellectual Freedom Statement:The Libraries are committed to protecting and advancingintellectual freedom, as an important set of rights.Intellectual freedom includes the right to access the widestdiversity of views and expressions, including those that areunorthodox, unpopular, or considered dangerous. Whenintellectual freedom exists, these views and expressionsare accessible without the necessity of endorsement byother individuals, groups or institutions, and without theimposition of political, moral, or aesthetic views of anotherindividual, group or institution. Intellectual freedomincludes the right to free expression, where an individualor group may fully engage in the quality and diversity ofthought and expression, and develop their own views andexpressions without being coerced and/or inhibited. Theright to privacy is essential for intellectual freedom.UF Mission:The University of Florida is a comprehensive learning institution built on aland grant foundation.We are The Gator Nation, a diverse community dedicated to excellence ineducation and research and shaping a better future for Florida, the nationand the world. Our mission is to enable our students to lead and influencethe next generation and beyond for economic, cultural and societal benefit.Smathers Libraries Mission:The Smathers Libraries collaborate with UF faculty, students and staff,as well as the University’s collaborators and constituents, to facilitateknowledge creation that contributes to UF’s standing as a preeminent publicresearch university. The Libraries encourage creativity and inquiry necessaryto support the University’s global ambitions and play an important role inattracting and retaining top students, faculty and staff.Smathers Libraries Vision:The Libraries ignite curiosity, serve as the locus of knowledge management,and promote intellectual exchange within our diverse global learningcommunity.To accomplish its mission and vision,the Smathers Libraries will:• Offer key services at the point of need to meet the requirements of theUniversity enterprise• Initiate and participate in collaboration and community building• Assure effective, efficient and equitable access to pertinent informationresources for all library usersThe Smathers Libraries will leverage our unique expertise,skill and role on campus to:• Facilitate and drive innovation and discovery• Focus on the user experience and user needs for decision making• Engage in assessment and evidence-based decision making• Promote a productive, diverse and team-based working and learningenvironment• Foster an internal environment with equal partnership among allemployees, based on the principles and practices of courtesy,professionalism and mutual respect• Provide an environment that encourages library faculty and staff toinnovate, experiment and adaptThe Smathers Libraries have identified sixStrategic Directions:Library Instruction, Consultation and Liaison ServicesCreative and Dynamic Content ManagementIntegrated Space and Technology ServicesDiversity, Equity and InclusionTransformative CollaborationImproved Individual and Community Health and WellnessLibrary Instruction, Consultation and Liaison ServicesCreative and Dynamic Content ManagementIntegrated Space and Technology ServicesDiversity, Equity and InclusionTransformative CollaborationImproved Individual and Community Health and Wellness