About 
Overview 
Mission, Vision, and Values 
Strategy Map, Major Initiatives 
Collaborations and Innovations 
Inclusion, Diversity, Equity, and Accessibility 
 Overview 
 Commitment to Anti-Racism and Social Justice 
Fast Facts 
Contact Us 
Contact Us Main
 Staff Directory
 Subject Specialists
 Circulation, Reserve, Billing & more
 Emerita & Emeritus Faculty 
Events 
Calendar of Events
 Future of the Research Library Speaker Series
 Research Commons Events
 Research Commons Workshops
 Terps Publish 
Jobs 
Newsroom 
Policies and Safety 
Awards 
Office of the Dean 
Welcome from the Dean
 UMD PACT
 Evaluation and Assessment
 Shared Governance
 Organizational Memberships
 Library Budget 
 
 Our mission, vision, and values

Mission
The University of Maryland Libraries embody the academic life, legacy, and values of the state’s flagship, land-grant institution. Our work enables student success; supports teaching, research, and creativity; and enriches the intellectual and cultural life of the community. 
For scholars across the globe, we steward and provide access to diverse collections and preserve the knowledge and history of the University. In the Libraries’ physical and virtual learning spaces, we offer inclusive services and innovative technologies for learning, study, and collaboration. Our teaching programs enhance information literacy skills and lifelong learning, and our extensive outreach activities strengthen the University’s public service mission.   
Vision
We at the UMD Libraries are recognized leaders in the design of innovative, user-centered programs, services, and spaces. Acting on our core values, we fully leverage our expertise and collections, our commitment to inclusivity, and strategic partnerships to advance the university community’s highest educational and research aspirations.
Values
In addition to our commitment to the American Library Association’s Core Values of Librarianship, and the Society of American Archivists’ Core Value Statement and Code of Ethics, the following organizational values are foundational in the Libraries’ planning, operations, and approaches:
Democratization
We are a democratizing force, providing an equitable and inclusive environment for using and creating knowledge. We foster lifelong learning in our community because we believe all people should be able to participate fairly in society. We are deeply committed to advancing diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility through our programs, collections, and physical and virtual spaces.
Stewardship
We are expert information professionals and caring stewards of the knowledge, collections, and resources entrusted to us. As we apply sustainable, future-oriented approaches in our practices, we value deep expertise and experience in our organization. We use assessment and evaluation to affirm the lasting impact of the work we accomplish every day for our users at the University, the state of Maryland, and beyond. 
Empathy
We are empathetic in our design and provision of user services and spaces, and in our problem-solving, collaboration, and inclusivity. We respect each other and our users and have a deep regard for all people and for equitable processes. 
Bravery
We are leaders in our promotion and defense of individuals’ rights to intellectual freedom, freedom of expression, privacy, and the right to participate fully in society. We apply our professional values with integrity at all times, and fearlessly explore new ideas within our organization.  
Transformation
In our quest to help people improve their lives through education and learning, we come to our work with creativity, passion, and pride. We are adept at changing our organization, spaces, and our programs and service models in anticipation of and in response to our users’ evolving needs. We are tenacious and innovative in our support of the University’s research, learning, creativity, and experimentation. 
Strategy Map, Major Initiatives 2020-2023
 
 
Last update: Aug 10, 2020
Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube

