Today: Special Collections in Hornbake CLOSED 
 Hours
 
 Toggle dropdown menu
 
 Hours All libraries. All days 
 McKeldinCLOSED
 
 ArchitectureCLOSED
 
 ArtCLOSED
 
 Michelle Smith Performing ArtsCLOSED
 
 Hornbake LibraryCLOSED
 
 Special Collections in HornbakeCLOSED
 
 STEM LibraryCLOSED
 
 Shady Grove See here for hours 
 My Accounts Toggle dropdown menu 
 My Account
 - For UMCP & USMAI books, equipment, and other items
 - Check due date and renew books online
  
 ILL Services Account
 - For Interlibrary Loan, UBorrow, & Scan & Deliver requests
 - Check due date, renew items online, and download articles
  
 Special Collections Account (Aeon)
 - Request special collections materials for use in our reading room
 - Manage photocopy and scanning requests online 
 Ask Us!
 
 Systems
 
 Search website
 
 Search
 
 
 Home
 
 Special Collections
 
 About Us
 
 About Us
 
 
 Toggle navigation
 Special Collections
  
 Special Collections 
   
 Home
   
 Contact Us
   
 About Us
 
 Overview
   
 Visit  
 FAQs  
 Policies
 
   
 Get Started
   
 Search by Format
   
 Using Primary Sources
   
 Instruction and Tours
   
 Exhibits
   
 Make a Donation
 
 About Us 
  
Location 
Located in Hornbake Library North, the Maryland Room is the reading room for Special Collections and University Archives materials. 
Mission 
Special Collections and University Archives at the University of Maryland Libraries will support the educational and research mission of the University. These collections enrich scholarly opportunities for the University's Students, faculty, and staff, as well as those of the state, national, and international communities. 
Vision 
Recognized for premier and unique collections, the University of Maryland Libraries will support the educational and research mission of the University. These collections enrich scholarly opportunities for the University’s students, faculty, and staff, as well as those of state, national, and international communities. 
The staff of Special Collections fosters the discovery of the collections through innovative and user-oriented technology, teaching, partnerships, and outreach. 
Collections 
The Special Collections and University Archives collect materials in the following concentrations. To learn more about our holdings, browse our subjects or contact a librarian.  
 University Archives
 State of Maryland
 Literature and Culture
 Mass Media and Culture
 Labor History
 Gordon W. Prange Collection
 Special Collections in Performing Arts 
 Historic Preservation and Architecture
 International Piano Archives at Maryland 
 Women’s History  
Our Work  
 History of Special Collections and University Archives
 Read more about our work on our blog 
  
Special Collections Account 
Frequently Asked Questions 
Social Media 
News  
 Last update: Dec 04, 2020
  
Contact us by email:
http://www.lib.umd.edu/special/contact/home 
by phone: (301) 405-9212   
 
Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube
