Here’s what to know about campus libraries for spring 2021.
Home › About University Libraries › Strategic Framework
Strategic Framework
Download the Strategic Framework for the University Libraries as a PDF.
Mission
We collect and curate what matters to Carolina. We help our users find, evaluate, and use information to create knowledge.
Vision
We will set the standard for the public university research library in the digital age.
Goal
We will differentiate the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and provide a competitive advantage over our peers and competitors.
Pillars
Preservation
We are the only library in the world committed to preserving the complex history and culture of the state of North Carolina, including the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. We ensure that the information and resources that scholars and the wider community need are available now and in the future.
We protect and chronicle the past, communicate the present, and help shape the future.
We guarantee the safekeeping of and access to our cultural heritage in support of inquiry, scholarship, and creativity.
We make our collections available to all current and future users.
We implement robust processes and infrastructures so that we can preserve materials for use today and by future generations, regardless of format.
Student Success
Libraries are incubators for student learning, centers for interdisciplinarity, and sources of inspiration, curiosity, and contemplation. We provide spaces and opportunities for teaching and learning—both in support of and alongside the curriculum.
We are a central hub for technologies, collections, and expertise for the use of the entire University community.
We empower learners to navigate the complex digital world as information consumers and creators.
We build students’ research competence and confidence and we contribute to student performance and retention.
We foster social and academic community among students.
We focus our resources on students most in need of support.
Research Enterprise
The University Libraries enables scholarship through deep and accessible collections, services that support research from idea through implementation, and the expertise of librarians and archivists.
We are a partner at every stage of research: discovery, analysis, writing, publication, outreach, assessment, and grants.
We serve all academic departments, research programs, clinical activities, and initiatives at the University.
We facilitate robust communities of practice.
We provide the University’s laboratory for digital scholarship.
We advocate for open access to all products of scholarship.
Values
One Library
We are a connected and unified staff that seeks to eliminate silos.
We communicate and engage with one another.
We optimize the user experience across the entire library system, reducing friction for the user.
Innovation
We provide an ideal environment to foster curiosity, exploration, and creative thinking.
We anticipate the tools that learners and researchers will need and provide technologies for researchers to enhance their own learning.
We continually seek better ways to fulfill our mission.
Inclusive Excellence
We empower diverse populations for full participation in the learning community and in a democratic society.
We eliminate barriers to the use of library spaces, collections, services, and activities.
We embrace diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility for our workforce and for library users.
Global Perspective
We collaborate and partner across borders to meet the challenges and needs of our interconnected world.
We seek out diverse ideas, strategies, people, and institutions.
We support the global reach of the University and facilitate global connections for members of the University community.
Priorities
Strategic Initiatives
Data Science
Sustainable Scholarship
Philanthropic Growth
Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility
Global Engagement
Operational Alignment
Workforce and Professional Excellence
Budget and Finance
Collections Strategy
Master Space Plan
About University LibrariesVice Provost for University Libraries and University Librarian
Strategic Framework
Public Services Values Statement
Diversity Statement
Staff Directory
Department Directory
Organizational Chart
Policies
Building Use Policies
Privacy Policy
Adverse Weather Policy
Public Art Policy
Hosted Exhibits Policy
Assessment & Statistics
Publications
Administrative Board of the Library
Student Library Advisory Board
Search & Find
