About
show submenu
about-col-one
Heading
Strategic Plan 2020-25
Strategic Plan Implementation
Locations & hours
Social media
about-col-two
Heading
Staff directory
Human resources
Resources for Libraries staff
about-col-three
Heading
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Accessibility
Policies & guidelines
Contact us
Giving
show submenu
giving-col-one
Our approach
Our team
FAQ
Gifts of materials
giving-col-two
Our priorities
Advance
Engage
Preserve
Enrich
giving-col-three
Your impact
Top talent
Learning spaces
Information resources
Programs & outreach
Innovations & partnerships
giving-col-four
Latest news
Stories
Press releases
Penn Libraries in the News
Give now
Search
Breadcrumb
Penn Libraries
About
Message from the Vice Provost
Penn Libraries Strategic Plan
Home
Framework
Values, Vision, Mission
Strategic Priorities
Advance
Engage
Preserve
Enrich
Message from the Vice Provost
Main content
In this epoch shaped by environmental uncertainty, a global pandemic and a national focus on racial justice, change is the only constant. During these unprecedented times, the Penn Libraries remains agile and responsive, bolstering the University’s mission of teaching, research and learning, with the evolving needs of our communities at the forefront of our priorities.
The world has changed dramatically since we began writing our strategic plan in Fall 2019, but we are unwavering in our commitment to deliver collections and services at point of need, anytime, anywhere.
Looking ahead, we must continue building our capacity to address the essential information challenges and opportunities in an everchanging world. We must sharply increase our efforts to acquire and provide digital content, to digitize pre-existing Penn-owned collections, and to make strategic investments in technology. It is critical that we continue to reimagine our physical spaces and services in increasingly virtual environments.
At the same time, we must continue and strengthen the conversations launched in spring 2020 on what we as an organization can contribute to local and national movements to address the inequities of our society.
Libraries are built to serve all people—whether in bricks and mortar buildings or through virtual interactions. In building deep and distinctive collections, preserving knowledge, and increasing access to it, we have the ability to inspire, to offer hope, and to change people’s lives. As we move forward with our strategic plan, we reaffrm our commitment to creating a living and learning environment that is truly transformative, safe and welcoming for all.
Thank you for your support and partnership in advancing knowledge to power Penn and better the world.
Constantia Constantinou
H. Carton Rogers III Vice Provost & Director of Libraries
Download the complete Strategic Plan  |  Continue to Strategic Plan: Framework >>
Footer: Sitemap for navigation
Social media
Brief footer
Penn Libraries
Hours
Library locations
Spaces
Workshops
Give
Footer: Penn Libraries contact info
Questions or comments
Report accessibility issues and get help
3420 Walnut St., Philadelphia, PA 19104-6206
215-898-7555
Campus Libraries Map
University of Pennsylvania
©University of Pennsylvania

