Strategic Plan, 2019-2024
Library Mission

The Library is the foundation on which the University of Virginia built a transformative educational community.  We partner in learning and collaborate in discovery by creating inclusive and sustainable collections, services, spaces and infrastructure.  In our programs, spaces, collections, and services, the Library will

    Innovate to meet emerging needs
    Respect the variety of human experience 
    Collect, preserve, and make accessible the depth and diversity of the cultural record
    Support academic success and partner in intellectual exploration

Library Values

The library seeks to enact and instill

    Respect 
    Integrity
    Collaboration
    Accountability
    Transparency
    Fairness
    Adaptability
    Resilience

Library Strategic Directions

As a public university library, we have a mission to

    Engage faculty, students, and the public in shaping our collections and our services. 
    Build stronger relations with local community leaders, local public libraries, and area residents.
    Employ a diverse staff who can create inclusive collections, services, and spaces.
    Collaborate with faculty to develop or identify course-related materials that are free to the student.

As a major research library, we have a responsibility to

    Provide broad, deep, and accessible collections  that promote discovery and innovation. 
    Respond to current and emerging research and teaching needs.  
    Collaborate with Virginia institutions on shared collection strategies for a more sustainable model for access to the scholarly record.
    Partner with other libraries and consortia to build shared platforms and services.

As information professionals in higher education, we have a commitment to

    Provide safe, welcoming, and generative spaces that encourage contemplation, collaboration and creativity.
    Partner with faculty and staff to enrich student learning both inside and outside the classroom.
    Make connections between individual information needs and the global information landscape.
    Instill data literacy, critical information literacy, and awareness of intellectual property rights and data ownership.
