ome   
Start Your Research    
Articles & Research Databases Literature on your research topic and direct access to articles online, when available at UW.  
E-Journals Alphabetical list of electronic journal titles held at UW.  
Encyclopedias & Dictionaries Resources for looking up quick facts and background information.  
E-Newspapers, Media, Maps & More Recommendations for finding news, audio/video, images, government publications, data sets and other types.  
Evaluating Information Learn how to choose the best and most reliable information that meets your research needs.  
Citation Styles & Tools Quick MLA, APA, and Chicago style guides for bibliographies; tools for storing and organizing sources.      
Course Reserves Library materials reserved for your classes.  
Collections & Archives Unique online and physical collections on specific subjects, in distinct formats, and in special archives.  
Mobile Search Tools Mobile-optimized research databases and library-related mobile apps.  
Research Guides Librarian recommended resources & research tips tailored to your topic.  
Undergraduate Researcher Tutorial Self-paced online tutorial that introduces students to research skills and UW Libraries resources and services.  
moreon research       
Use the Libraries    
Your Library Account Log in to renew borrowed materials, check on items you have requested, and pay fines.  
Study & Meeting Spaces Study, conference, event, and meeting spaces, and how to reserve them.  
Computers & Printing Computers, printers, and scanners in the Libraries.      
Accessibility We are committed to providing equal access to library collections, services, and facilities for all library users.  
Interlibrary Loan & Scanning Services Get PDFs of print articles delivered via email and borrow items not held at UW.  
Borrowing & Access What you can check out from the Libraries, how long, renewals, and returns.  
more on using the Libraries     
 
Help & Support    
FAQ Short, simple how-to and demos of frequently asked questions about using the Libraries and information resources.  
Graduate Funding Info Service Assistance with locating funding for research, tuition, travel, and other graduate school-related expenses.  
Off-Campus Access & Technical Support Using library resources from off-campus and other technical tips.  
Open Scholarship Commons One-stop shop for knowledge creation and dissemination services.      
Resources for Writing Campus writing help and links to online resources.  
Scholarly Publishing & Open Access Info and tools for scholarly publishing and open-access publishing alternatives.  
Subject Librarians Talk to a librarian with expertise in your subject area for help with your research.  
Teaching Support Collaborative library instructional services that can improve the research and information skills of your students.    
more help       
About    
Libraries & Hours Contact info, map location, and hours for all library branches.  
News Events Exhibits What's going on at the Libraries: announcements, upcoming events, and current exhibits.  
Organization At-a-Glance Staff directory and info about the Office of the Dean and other library departments.  
Support the Libraries Give to the Libraries! Join the Friends of the Libraries.      
Our Blog News, views and impact stories from the UW Libraries.  
Jobs Student, staff, and librarian job opportunities at the Libraries.  
PoliciesLibraries policies governing use of library resources, space, and services.  
Strategic Plan Current Libraries strategic goals and initiatives.  
more about the Libraries       
Ask Us! 
Click to chat now with a librarian! Get help 24/7 with this real-time chat service.  
Email Get answers to less-urgent questions and comments via email.  
Consultations Make an appointment and get specialized help from a librarian.  
more ways to contact us        
  
Special Collections 
  
About        
  
In brief
Special Collections brings together the University of Washington Libraries' most rare and unique resources. From papyrus to born-digital, our holdings span history and the globe, and offer boundless opportunities for exploration and discovery.
Students, faculty, and visitors are invited to examine manuscripts, printed works, artists' books, photographs, maps, and other materials in the protected environment of the Special Collections reading room.  Our digital collections are available on the web.
Book Arts & Rare Books
Historical Visual Materials
Labor Archives of Washington
Pacific Northwest Collection
University of Washington Archives
Washington State Jewish Archives
 
Prepare for your visit
 
Our Commitment to Equity and Diversity
The staff of Special Collections stands with our Black community members. In doing so, we renew our commitment to combating institutionalized racism by prioritizing our collecting efforts on resources that document the underrepresented histories of Black, Indigenous and People of Color; collaborating more closely with representatives from these communities; centering these voices in our exhibit content, social media communications, and other teaching and learning initiatives; and increasing our efforts to educate ourselves and diversify our staff. Embedding practices that work to dismantle structural racial injustice is our shared responsibility as librarians, archivists, and library workers.
This commitment aligns with the University’s Race and Equity Initiative and the UW Libraries’ 2018-2023 Strategic Directions to enhance equitable environments for research, learning and working and to grow as a learning organization. In particular, we continuously strive to elevate the voices of historically underrepresented communities at UW and in the Pacific Northwest by partnering to create, preserve and increase access to culturally-relevant information resources. We believe that Black history is our history, and we must not waver in our resolve to ensure that this history is represented in Special Collections. Black history matters. Black lives matter.
 
Volunteer/Internship Opportunities
We welcome volunteers and interns to assist us in our work. If you are interested in learning more about opportunities available in Special Collections please fill out the form below and we will be in contact.
UW Special Collections Volunteer Opportunities
  
Annual Report       
Staff 
Rebecca Baker Reproductions and Publishing Services Coordinatorrb43@uw.edu | 206-543-1929
John Bolcer University Archivistjdbolcer@uw.edu | 206-685-2352
Nicolette Bromberg Visual Materials Curator nxb@uw.edu| 206-685-2968
Mark Carlson Computer Support Analystcarlsonm@uw.edu | 206-543-8506
Conor M. Casey Head, Labor Archivescmcasey@uw.edu | 206-685-3976
Paul J. Constantine Associate Dean of Distinctive Collections/ Director of Special Collectionspjc6@uw.edu | 206-685-1903
Kelly Daviduke Architectural Drawings Collection Research Archivistvellum@uw.edu | 206-685-4480
Emily Dominick Head of Technical Servicesehd5@uw.edu | 206-543-7890
Ryan Donaldson Washington State Jewish Historical Society Archivistwsjarch@uw.edu | 206-543-1895
Anne Jenner Pacific Northwest Curatorajenner@uw.edu | 206-685-2856
Sandra Kroupa Book Arts and Rare Books Curatorskroupa@uw.edu |206-685-3248
Ann Lally Digital Collections Curatoralally@uw.edu | 206-685-1473
Kat LewisAssistant Book Arts and Rare Books Librariankatl@uw.edu | 206-543-6155
Allee Monheim Public Service Librarianamonheim@uw.edu | 206-543-3859
Lisa Oberg Associate Director / History of Science and Medicine Curator lisanne@uw.edu | 206-543-7492
Hannah Palin Moving Image Curatorfilmarc@uw.edu | 206-543-1929
Amy PierceLibrary Technician III apx@uw.edu | 206-543-1929
Jana Peterson Support Technicianjpete@uw.edu | 206-543-1929
Crystal RodgersLabor Archivist for Processingrodgercr@uw.edu | 206-685-6903
James Stack Reference Specialist and Indexerjbstack@uw.edu | 206-685-4424

