About the Libraries

The University Libraries support the education, research and service missions of the University and its communities through comprehensive, high-quality resources, services and programs. The libraries are leaders in providing accurate and timely information to Wayne State University as well as the metropolitan Detroit area and Michigan. Scholarly materials in the University Libraries offer total more than three million volumes, over 56,000 journal titles and a broad range of electronic resources, including electronic journals and over 800,000 e-books, all available through the Libraries' website.

The Library System includes the David Adamany Undergraduate Library, the Arthur Neef Law Library, the Purdy/Kresge Library, the Vera P. Shiffman Medical Library and its Learning Resource Center at the Eugene Applebaum College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, and the Walter P. Reuther Library of Labor and Urban Affairs and University Archives. The School of Information Sciences and the Detroit Area Library Network (DALNET) are also under the Library System's charge.

The University Libraries offer in-person and online reference and research support, interlibrary loan, circulation and course reserve services, document delivery and library and information literacy programs. The latest information technologies provide state-of-the-art access to instructional and research materials. The libraries provide silent and collaborative study spaces, including a 24-hour facility, as well as classroom support to over 300 general purpose classrooms throughout campus.

Mission

The Wayne State University Libraries advance scholarship, student learning and faculty innovation through continuous development of a library that serves as a national model for a research University with an urban teaching and service mission.

Visionary Pillars

Library System Visionary Pillars
The Pillars of the Library System are Student Success, Community Engagement, Scholarship, and Organization and Culture.
 
 Diversity
Diversity in the Library System
The Library System is committed to creating an environment for library users and staff that helps them engage the world in a way that encourages diversity and inclusion.

 Policies

All Library Policies
It is the responsibility of WSU faculty, staff and students to comply with university and Library System policies at all times.

Committees

View All Committees
These pages identify all of the groups and committees that exist in the Libraries and contain information like charge, roster and publicly viewable documents, like minutes and handouts.



Statistics
A Statistical Profile of the WSU Library System
These statistics - unless otherwise indicated - cover the operations in the WSU Library System: the Arthur Neef Law Library, the Oakland Center Library, Purdy/Kresge Library, Shiffman Medical Library, and the David Adamany Undergraduate Library. The figures marked with a red dagger (†) cover the Walter P. Reuther Library.

Publications
Library System Annual Reports

Giving
Giving to the Library System
The Wayne State University Library System welcomes donations in the form of financial contributions supporting the University Libraries and the School of Information Sciences (SIS). Due to critical space limitations, the Wayne State University Library System does not normally accept donations of books or journals to the collection.

Employment
Current Opportunities
Positions within the Wayne State University Libraries range from hourly wage, student jobs to full time staff and professional librarian positions.
