Strategic Plan
University Libraries’ Strategic Plan was developed in 2018-19 through input from hundreds of faculty, student, and community stakeholders. See below for the 6 Strategic Directions, 18 Goals, and 32 Objectives that we’ve identified as forming our roadmap to 2024.
Our plan launched in July 2019, and we look forward to keeping stakeholders updated with our progress going forward. See below for more details.
Organizational Principles
Open
We are a welcoming hub that inspires discovery and collaboration to foster creative success and intellectual freedom. We emphasize inclusiveness and accessibility in all our programs, services, and initiatives.
Engaged
We serve as a trusted partner, providing specialized expertise throughout the scholar’s journey. We maintain critical relationships with our stakeholders to develop competencies and services in the Libraries in anticipation of changing and evolving needs.
Transformative
We strive to innovate and adapt to facilitate creative approaches to produce successful academic outcomes. We remove barriers to resources essential to scholarly pursuits.
Strategic Directions
Collections: Cultivate comprehensive and distinctive collections that propel world-class research and scholarshipEnvironments: Offer dynamic spaces and services that accommodate diverse academic needsDiscovery: Deliver intuitive tools for seamless discovery, access, and connection to information resourcesVisibility: Increase awareness of library collections, services, and programs that are integral to research, teaching, and learningPartnerships: Advance collaborations and alliances that contribute to successful academic outcomesInnovation: Build sufficient organizational capacity to anticipate and support evolving modes of teaching, research, and scholarship dissemination
Printable Version
Download a printable, PDF version of the Washington University Libraries’ Strategic Plan Summary.
Questions? Contact us @ librarystrategicplan@wustl.edu.
Progress Visualization
Our Data Services team has utilized Tableau to visualize the progress of our objectives over time.
Click here/below to see the latest version and learn more.
Strategic Plan News & Progress
View Posts
Strategic Plan
September 17, 2020
Strategic Plan Update: Assessing Our Partnerships
View Article about Strategic Plan Update: Assessing Our Partnerships
Strategic Plan
August 27, 2020
Strategic Plan Update: Creating a Communications Plan
View Article about Strategic Plan Update: Creating a Communications Plan
Strategic Plan
August 20, 2020
Strategic Plan Update: Creating a Brand Identity for the Washington University Libraries
View Article about Strategic Plan Update: Creating a Brand Identity for the Washington University Libraries
University Libraries
Washington University in St. Louis
Campus Box 1061
One Brookings Dr.
St. Louis, MO 63130
Instagram
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Vimeo
