March 1: Bass Library reopened; Sterling and Bass resume evening and weekend hours. Yale Library COVID-19 updates.
Yale University Library
Yale University Library
Yale University Library Research Guides
Research Support and Library Services
About the Library
Strategic Directions
Search this Guide
Search
About the Library: Strategic Directions
About Home
Strategic Directions
Community Values
Prizes
Policies
Toggle Dropdown
Access to Collections, Borrowing, & Use
E-Resources Access and Use
Patron Records
Publisher Take-Down Notices
Use of Library Spaces
Presentations on Vendor Products
Library Committees
Collection Development
About the Library Links
Departments & Staff
Hours and Locations
List of hours for all Yale University Library locations and collections.
Policies
Prizes
Publications, including Nota Bene
Yale University Library newsletter.
Library Employment
Email Subscription Service
Library Organizational Chart
Strategic Directions 2019-2022
MISSION
As the heart of the university, Yale University Library provides outstanding support for teaching, learning, research, and practice at Yale, and for the worldwide scholarly community, through our staff, collections, programs, spaces, and services.
VISION
Yale University Library is one of the world’s leading research libraries and a catalyst for intellectual and cultural exploration. By anticipating and meeting the evolving needs of all our library users, we  advance the university mission’s commitment “to improving the world today and for future generations through outstanding research and scholarship, education, preservation, and practice.” We are innovative, collaborative, and purposeful in stewarding our iconic spaces, expanding the accessibility and uses of our collections, adopting and deploying technology, and developing staff expertise. As one unified library, we work together to help users understand and benefit from an extraordinary range of resources and services.
STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS
Focus on library users. Keep the needs of our diverse users at the center of our physical and online environments and services. Continuously assess and improve the library experience of students, faculty, researchers, practitioners, and visitors.
Enhance teaching and learning. Spark intellectual and creative development through increased engagement with the library’s resources, exhibits, instruction, and other programs. Partner with faculty and other Yale colleagues to support and enrich all forms of student learning.
Advance research and inquiry. Develop, support, and make accessible collections, staff expertise, technology, and physical spaces to foster world-class research and practice in established as well as emerging fields.
Extend the reach and impact of collections. Select, acquire, preserve, promote, and make more accessible our diverse physical and digital collections in service of teaching, research, and practice. Lead and innovate in expanding the definition, scope, and use of the research library.
Connect and collaborate. Thrive by creating and sustaining strategic collaborations across library departments, with campus stakeholders, with state and local partners in Connecticut, with other research libraries, and within the global community.
Leverage technology. Provide, develop, and maintain robust, sustainable, and responsive digital and technological services that support the current needs of library users and staff while anticipating and responding to future needs.
Be a great workplace. Cultivate and support excellence, diversity and inclusion, and continuous learning for all staff in a dynamic workplace aligned with the library’s community values. 
Tell our story. Raise awareness of the library’s resources and services. Communicate the capabilities and contributions of the unified library to inspire understanding of, and support for, the library’s essential roles at Yale and in the world.
Get Help
Help is available Monday to Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
 Email: askyalelibrary@yale.edu
 Call: (203) 432-1775
 Text: (203) 826-2053

